about.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /about/index.html
title: "About"
---

<aside class="roop-intro">
<p>{% include roop-intro.html %}</p>
</aside>

When creating software, I design the user experience,
write the code and create a lot of the graphics. I take the
effort to make it great software.

Presently, I'm working on my first iPad application. Earlier this year,
I wrote and implemented a parser specification for Markdown called
[vfmd][].

In the past, I have worked with Nokia, KDE, Hyves and other customers
as part of [a Qt consultancy company]. During that time, I created
[Notekeeper][], the Evernote client for Meego-Harmattan and Symbian.
Prior to that, I worked for Texas Instruments as an EDA engineer.

[vfmd]: http://vfmd.github.io/ "vfmd: Markdown with a spec"
[Notekeeper]: http://www.notekeeperapp.com/n9 "Notekeeper for N9"
[a Qt consultancy company]: http://www.forwardbias.in/ "ForwardBias Technologies"

**Twitter:** [@roopeshchander](http://twitter.com/roopeshchander)<br />
**Email:** roop at roopc dot net

Commit message:

Link to Bisect from the About page

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /about/index.html
title: "About"
---

<aside class="roop-intro">
<p>{% include roop-intro.html %}</p>
</aside>

When creating software, I design the user experience,
write the code and create a lot of the graphics. I take the
effort to make it great software.

Presently, I'm working on my first iPad application: [Bisect]. Earlier
this year, I wrote and implemented a parser specification for Markdown
called [vfmd].

In the past, I have worked with Nokia, KDE, Hyves and other customers
as part of [a Qt consultancy company]. During that time, I created
[Notekeeper][], the Evernote client for Meego-Harmattan and Symbian.
Prior to that, I worked for Texas Instruments as an EDA engineer.

[Bisect]: http://bisectapp.com
          "Bisect: A split-screen Markdown editor for the iPad"
[vfmd]: http://vfmd.github.io/ "vfmd: Markdown with a spec"
[Notekeeper]: http://www.notekeeperapp.com/n9 "Notekeeper for N9"
[a Qt consultancy company]: http://www.forwardbias.in/ "ForwardBias Technologies"

**Twitter:** [@roopeshchander](http://twitter.com/roopeshchander)<br />
**Email:** roop at roopc dot net
