hideandseek/index.md, before:

---
layout: productpage
productname: "Hide &amp; Seek"
productslug: hideandseek
productimage1x: HideAndSeekIcon200.png
productimage2x: HideAndSeekIcon400.png
productimagewidth: 200
productimageheight: 200
productimagebg: black
permalink: /hideandseek/index.html
title: "Hide and Seek"
---

<h1>Hide &amp; Seek</h1>

<aside class="roop-intro">
<p>A Safari content blocker extension to improve your
privacy when making web searches</p>
</aside>

Hide & Seek lets you search in Google and Bing as an
anonymous user, and simultaneously use their other services,
like Gmail and Outlook as a logged in user. You can do this
without having to use Private Browsing.

With both Google and Microsoft, if you're logged into one service,
you're logged into all of them. For example, if you use
Gmail on the browser, you become automatically logged in when you
use Google search. This means that Google can (and does) associate
your search query with your Google account. To counter this,
you can use Hide & Seek to hide your identity in Google search,
while still staying logged into Gmail.

> Hide & Seek has nothing to do with “blocking ads”. It is simply about
> maintaining your privacy and anonymity while using Google and Bing for
> web search.
>
> _John Gruber, [Daring Fireball][df]_

[df]: http://daringfireball.net/linked/2015/09/16/hide-and-seek

Hide & Seek supports hiding your identity in:

  - Google Web Search
  - Google Images search
  - Google Videos search
  - Bing web search
  - Bing images search
  - Bing videos search
  - Bing news

Before using Hide & Seek, you'll have to decide which Google and Bing services
you'd like to use logged out. Then, configure Hide & Seek to hide your
identity in those services. After that, you can search as usual and
your searches will be performed as a logged out user. You can
simultaneously use other Google or Microsoft services (like Gmail or
Outlook) in other tabs as a logged in user.

Some caveats:

  - On the iPhone: When you’d like to follow a Bing search result, you
    might have to use the ‘Open in New Tab’ option rather than tapping
    on a result directly.
  - On the Mac: When using Google Images search and when Hide & Seek is
    hiding your identity for that search, clicking on the ‘View page’ or
    ‘View image’ links might show a redirect notice with a link you can
    follow, rather than directly taking you to the destination page

You can find out more in the [Skeptic's FAQ](/hideandseek/faq/).

<div>
<div class="column-container-outer">
<div class="column-container-inner">
<div class="left-column">
  <div class="column">
  <div class="centered-text around-app-store-icon">
   <p class="app-platform">For iPhone / iPad</p>
   <p><a
   href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hide-seek-improve-your-privacy/id1039871117?ls=1&mt=8&at=1000l6ab&ct=web"
   ><img alt="App Store"
    src="app_store_badge.svg" /></a></p>
   <p class = "tight-lines">
   <a href="releasenotes/ios/">Version 1.1</a><br/>
   $ 2.99 Universal App<br/>
   Requires iOS 10 on a 64-bit device
   </p>
  </div>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="right-column">
  <div class="column">
  <div class="centered-text around-app-store-icon">
   <p class="app-platform">For Mac</p>
   <p><a
   href="https://safari-extensions.apple.com/details/?id=net.roopc.hideandseekformac-R2NV2FHE22"
   ><img alt="Safari Extensions Gallery"
    src="SafariExtnGalleryBadge.png"
    srcset="SafariExtnGalleryBadge.png 1x, SafariExtnGalleryBadge@2x.png 2x"
    /></a></p>
   <p class="tight-lines">
   <a href="releasenotes/macos/">Version 1.2</a><br/>
   Free Safari Extension<br/>
   Requires macOS 10.11 or later
   </p>
  </div>
  </div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class="end-of-column">

<div class="app-legal-footer centered-text tight-lines">
<p><small>
Made in India by <a href="/">Roopesh Chander</a>.
Apple, the Apple logo, Safari, iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Google is a registered trademark of Google Inc. Google Web Search, Google Images, Google Videos and Google News are trademarks of Google Inc.
Microsoft and Bing are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
</small></p>
</div>
</div>

Commit message:

Hide & Seek: Add caveat for macOS Sierra bug

hideandseek/index.md, after:

---
layout: productpage
productname: "Hide &amp; Seek"
productslug: hideandseek
productimage1x: HideAndSeekIcon200.png
productimage2x: HideAndSeekIcon400.png
productimagewidth: 200
productimageheight: 200
productimagebg: black
permalink: /hideandseek/index.html
title: "Hide and Seek"
---

<h1>Hide &amp; Seek</h1>

<aside class="roop-intro">
<p>A Safari content blocker extension to improve your
privacy when making web searches</p>
</aside>

Hide & Seek lets you search in Google and Bing as an
anonymous user, and simultaneously use their other services,
like Gmail and Outlook as a logged in user. You can do this
without having to use Private Browsing.

With both Google and Microsoft, if you're logged into one service,
you're logged into all of them. For example, if you use
Gmail on the browser, you become automatically logged in when you
use Google search. This means that Google can (and does) associate
your search query with your Google account. To counter this,
you can use Hide & Seek to hide your identity in Google search,
while still staying logged into Gmail.

> Hide & Seek has nothing to do with “blocking ads”. It is simply about
> maintaining your privacy and anonymity while using Google and Bing for
> web search.
>
> _John Gruber, [Daring Fireball][df]_

[df]: http://daringfireball.net/linked/2015/09/16/hide-and-seek

Hide & Seek supports hiding your identity in:

  - Google Web Search
  - Google Images search
  - Google Videos search
  - Bing web search
  - Bing images search
  - Bing videos search
  - Bing news

Before using Hide & Seek, you'll have to decide which Google and Bing services
you'd like to use logged out. Then, configure Hide & Seek to hide your
identity in those services. After that, you can search as usual and
your searches will be performed as a logged out user. You can
simultaneously use other Google or Microsoft services (like Gmail or
Outlook) in other tabs as a logged in user.

Some caveats:

  - On the iPhone: When you’d like to follow a Bing search result, you
    might have to use the ‘Open in New Tab’ option rather than tapping
    on a result directly.
  - On the Mac: If you're using macOS Sierra, searching from the Safari
    address bar _does not_ hide your identity from the search site, so
    please avoid doing that, or upgrade to macOS High Sierra.
  - On the Mac: When using Google Images search and when Hide & Seek is
    hiding your identity for that search, clicking on the ‘View page’ or
    ‘View image’ links might show a redirect notice with a link you can
    follow, rather than directly taking you to the destination page

You can find out more in the [Skeptic's FAQ](/hideandseek/faq/).

<div>
<div class="column-container-outer">
<div class="column-container-inner">
<div class="left-column">
  <div class="column">
  <div class="centered-text around-app-store-icon">
   <p class="app-platform">For iPhone / iPad</p>
   <p><a
   href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hide-seek-improve-your-privacy/id1039871117?ls=1&mt=8&at=1000l6ab&ct=web"
   ><img alt="App Store"
    src="app_store_badge.svg" /></a></p>
   <p class = "tight-lines">
   <a href="releasenotes/ios/">Version 1.1</a><br/>
   $ 2.99 Universal App<br/>
   Requires iOS 10 on a 64-bit device
   </p>
  </div>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="right-column">
  <div class="column">
  <div class="centered-text around-app-store-icon">
   <p class="app-platform">For Mac</p>
   <p><a
   href="https://safari-extensions.apple.com/details/?id=net.roopc.hideandseekformac-R2NV2FHE22"
   ><img alt="Safari Extensions Gallery"
    src="SafariExtnGalleryBadge.png"
    srcset="SafariExtnGalleryBadge.png 1x, SafariExtnGalleryBadge@2x.png 2x"
    /></a></p>
   <p class="tight-lines">
   <a href="releasenotes/macos/">Version 1.2</a><br/>
   Free Safari Extension<br/>
   Requires macOS 10.11 or later
   </p>
  </div>
  </div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class="end-of-column">

<div class="app-legal-footer centered-text tight-lines">
<p><small>
Made in India by <a href="/">Roopesh Chander</a>.
Apple, the Apple logo, Safari, iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Google is a registered trademark of Google Inc. Google Web Search, Google Images, Google Videos and Google News are trademarks of Google Inc.
Microsoft and Bing are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
</small></p>
</div>
</div>
