---
layout: post
title: "The Chasm in the App Store"
description: "Applying insights from <em>Crossing the Chasm</em> and <em>The
              Purple Cow</em> to the iOS App Store"
category: posts
---

Many thanks to Jared Sinclair for publishing the [one-year sales
figures][unread_stats] for [Unread][unread-app]. Real figures like these
offer a rare insight into the App Store as a marketplace for indie
developers.

Despite having excellent press and being featured by the App Store,
Unread "only earned $42K in sales ($21K after taxes and expenses) and is
on a course that doesn’t promise much growth".

> Half of the lifetime sales of Unread were generated in the first five
> days. It would take another 170 days (24 weeks) to generate that same
> amount again.

Jared also wrote a great [follow-up post][5_hard_lessons] summarizing
the responses so far to his sales numbers post.

This pattern of a spike followed by a long tail, is similar to [what
David Barnard saw][launch_center_pro_stats] last October for [Launch
Center Pro][launch_center_pro_app].

One of the reasons for this could be that there are two distinct markets
within the App Store and we sometimes inadvertently limit our scope to
just one of them. Of course, what I have here is only a hypothesis,
which can either be a reasonable explanation or total nonsense. (Also
note that I have zero experience selling anything on the App Store, as
of writing this.)

[unread_stats]: http://blog.jaredsinclair.com/post/93118460565/a-candid-look-at-unreads-first-year
    "A Candid Look at Unread’s First Year"
[5_hard_lessons]: http://blog.jaredsinclair.com/post/93784230655/five-hard-lessons-learned-from-unread
    "Five Hard Lessons Learned from Unread"
[unread-app]: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/unread-an-rss-reader/id754143884?mt=8
    "Unread on the App Store"
[launch_center_pro_stats]: https://twitter.com/drbarnard/status/391270010645409792
[launch_center_pro_app]: http://contrast.co/launch-center-pro/

## The two markets

An app that solves a niche problem, or solves a problem or a need in a
unique way, can be considered as a technology product in its own right.
Applying the [technology-adoption life cycle][tech_adoption_lifecycle]
to such an app, we can say that the app would get adopted first by
_visionaries_ before the most of the _pragmatists_ even consider it [^1].

### Visionaries

The visionaries are generally the first to adopt an app. They are
looking out for new apps to try out. They actively follow sites and tech
blogs that review and report about apps. They discuss and compare apps
in forums. They are open to trying out new apps that they find
interesting, or apps that they think could be of use to them. They might
even purchase multiple apps for a particular use case to try them all
and find their best fit. If an app has a feature that requires a web
service that they don't use at present, they don't mind signing up for
it (or even switching to it) so that they could check out the feature.

Some of the visionaries are vocal about the app and help it reach a
bigger market, sometimes even influencing the pragmatists. [Seth Godin]
has a term for these visionaries who sell it for us: "Sneezers". Tech
writers are great Sneezers.

### Pragmatists

The pragmatists are not really interested in what's new. They have a
problem or need that they want addressed. They come to the App Store
with their problem in mind, or sometimes, based on a Sneezer's
recommendation of a solution to their problem. If the App Store has too
many options for them to make up their mind, they would probably look
for reviews and comparison articles.

They will have a set of features that they want, and mentally narrow
down to the apps that support them, and pick one. They would prefer to
be really sure an app suits their need before they part with their cash.

Pragmatists just look for a way to best solve a problem they have, and
if there are multiple apps that solve their problem similarly, they
would most likely pick the cheapest of the lot.

[tech_adoption_lifecycle]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_adoption_lifecycle

## The chasm

In [_Crossing the Chasm_][chasm_book], Geoffrey Moore argues that
there's a wide chasm between the visionaries (or early adopters) and the
pragmatists (or the early majority):

> The real news is the deep and dividing chasm that separates the early
> adopters from the early majority. This is by far the most formidable and
> unforgiving transition in the Technology Adoption Life Cycle, and it is
> all the more dangerous because it typically goes unrecognized.

Because these demographics are very different, the marketing of the app,
sometimes even the design of the app, should also be different to
address these two markets.

The following would make a good impact on the visionary crowd,
but doesn't make much of an impact on the pragmatists:

1. The app has something unique so that it stands out
2. Getting great reviews and press
3. Being featured in the App Store

However, doing these would help sell to the pragmatists crowd:

1. The app's unique features offer value to a larger set of people
2. A detailed App Store listing showing all features of the app
3. Offering trials, possibly using a freemium model
4. Supporting all popular services that users of your app might
   want to use it with
5. Getting recommendations from Sneezers

Focusing on the visionaries is essential (because they are a great help
in selling our product to the pragmatists), but that is not enough if we
want the bigger pie of the pragmatists.

Seth Godin says, in [_The Purple Cow_][purple_cow_book]:

> You must design a product that is remarkable enough to attract the
> early adopters - but is flexible enough and attractive enough that those
> adopters will have an easy time spreading the idea to the rest of the
> curve.

## Finally

The first lesson in Jared's [lesson's-learnt post][5_hard_lessons] is to
"own a niche". I think the way to own a niche, especially for an indie
developer, is to concentrate _first_ on impressing the visionaries
and _next_ to focus on the rest of the market.

The advantages are:

1. We can ship early (no need to support all possible integrations or workflows)
2. We can ship 1.0 as paid-upfront, and move to freemium later
   (controlled increase of support, and possibly easier to figure out
   what to keep free in the freemium offering)
3. We can focus on the marketing relevant to the market we are targeting

The spike in the sales graph is nearly the whole of the visionaries
market buying the app in a very short period of time. So the fall of the
spike is inevitable. But if we make sincere attempts to woo the
pragmatists after the fall, the graph would hopefully settle down to a
higher level.

[Seth Godin]: http://www.sethgodin.com/
[chasm_book]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossing_the_Chasm
[purple_cow_book]: http://www.sethgodin.com/purple/

---

[^1]: I think the App Store is too young for us to talk about the _late
      majority_ and _laggards_. I have also taken the liberty of
      clumping the _innovators_ along with the _early adopters_ for
      simplicity.
