---
layout: post
title: "Evaluating the Common Markdown spec"
description: "A critical look at John MacFarlane's stmd spec for
             Markdown"
category: posts
readthisnext: /posts/2014/markdown-cfg
---

The promise of "Common Markdown", or the erstwhile "Standard Markdown",
or just **stmd**, is to present a spec that describes the Markdown
syntax unambiguously. 

Their homepage says:

> ... one of our major goals is to make Markdown easier to parse, and to
> eliminate the many old inconsistencies and ambiguities that made writing
> a Markdown parser so difficult.

But after looking at [the stmd spec][stmd_spec], it looks unlikely
that their current spec can evolve into a specification that can
unambiguously specify Markdown.

### Why do Markdown parsers differ?

Undoubtedly, John Gruber's [original syntax description] for Markdown is
ambiguous. Some of the ambiguity is in the description of the syntax
constructs itself, like how should sublists be written.

But a lot of the ambiguity in parsing Markdown is in handling the
interplay of different syntax constructs. Some of them are silly and
is possibly rare in real world documents[^1], like
whether `*emph or [a link*?](url)` has an emphasis construct or a link
construct. But some of them are practical too, like whether the second
line in the following snippet is part of the list or a separate header:

~~~
* Paper
* Pencil
---
~~~

The above text is something that a writer could really write in a
Markdown document, and it does get interpreted differently by different
parsers. Why this disagreement? Because, while the original Markdown
syntax was clear about what a list looks like, and also what a header
looks like, it didn't specify what a parser should do if something in
the input looks like it could be both a list and a header. So different
implementations took different decisions on how to handle this.

The above is just one example and there are quite a lot of permutations
in which different syntax constructs could interleave in a document. It
is important that a spec that aims to unambiguously specify the syntax
addresses all of these interplays.

### Where does stmd fall short?

The stmd spec assumes a declarative style, similar to the original
Markdown syntax description, and gets into more detail for each syntax
construct. So, the ambiguities limited to a particular syntax construct
are addressed, or can be potentially addressed.

But stmd is silent on what should be done when a piece of text matches
multiple syntax constructs, in much the same way as the original
Markdown syntax page is.

#### Block-level ambiguity

To illustrate, if we take the above example of lists vs. setext header,
stmd is equally ambiguous on how it should be handled. According to
sections 5.2 and 5.3 of the stmd spec (covering list items and lists),
the second line is part of a list. But according to section 4.3
(covering setext headers), the second line is a header. Going by
different parts of the spec, we can interpret the input differently.

And fixing this would mean that the definition of setext headers should
be changed to add an exception about how the first line of text should
not be part of any other construct (except if they are link reference
definitions, if you want to go by the stmd implementation). And that
only muddles it further.

One could argue that whatever comes first should take precedence. If
that's the case, a spec that aims to be unambiguous should be explicit
about it. And should include an exception in the definition of setext
headers requiring that the first line of text should not be part of any
other construct (except link reference definitions, if you want to match
the stmd implementation). But that makes it only murkier to determine
from the spec what constitutes a setext header (because now the
definition of setext headers is dependant on the definition of the other
constructs).

And even then, consider the case where the setext underline is indented,
like:

~~~
* Paper
* Pencil
  ---
~~~

Is the header now inside the list, or outside? Going by the stmd spec,
it could be interpreted either way. Neither clarifying the setext
header description, nor adding a note about precedence will help in
clearing this up.

#### Span-level ambiguity

Similarly, when span level constructs interleave, we again have
ambiguity. For example, the text run `*emph or __strong*__` can be
parsed either considering `*` as em or `__` as strong. We're not any
wiser after reading the spec how this should be handled. Admittedly,
this is a pedantic example, but a specification aiming to be unambiguous
cannot afford to leave these undefined.

This argument can be extended to talk about other interleaving of span elements,
like code spans and emph, links and other links, links and images, links
and emphasis[^2], well, you get the idea.

### Same old story

The stmd spec takes the approach of declaratively describing a construct
and providing examples to illustrate corner cases. Even though the spec
has a lot of examples, they barely scratch the surface of describing the
corner cases. That's not surprising given that the number of
permutations of interleaving of syntax constructs is just too large to
handle with examples.

This is why the current design of the stmd spec is inadequate to cover
all the corner cases and evolve into an unambiguous spec. I know that it
is possible to write a completely unambiguous algorithm-based spec (à la
the HTML5 spec) for Markdown, because I've [written one][vfmd] myself.
There might also be other ways to do it that I haven't come across. But
a declarative spec like this cannot get rid of ambiguity resulting from
the interleaving of multiple syntax constructs, and hence adopters of
this spec will likely interpret the same spec in different ways, exactly
like before.

[stmd]: http://jgm.github.io/stmd/
[stmd_spec]: http://jgm.github.io/stmd/spec.html
[original syntax description]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
[vfmd]: http://www.vfmd.org/

---

[^1]: Not so rare if you're writing a Markdown editor and need to parse
      the text as it's being written. In that case, a lot of these
      not-likely-in-a-document scenarios can be encountered while the
      document gets edited.

[^2]: The current link definition in the stmd spec disallows unescaped
      asterisks in the link label, which is wrong and doesn't match the stmd
      implementation. Once that is fixed, we will have the problem of whether
      `*a[b*](url)` is `a[` in an em or `b*` in a link.

