work/wireguard.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /work/wireguard/index.html
---

<section markdown="1">

  <aside class="roop-intro">
  <p>{% include roop-intro.html %}</p>
  <p>Here are some of the things I've worked on.</p>
  </aside>

## WireGuard

I'm working on bringing the [WireGuard] VPN tunnel to iOS and macOS using
the Network Extension framework. The iOS version is now [in beta].

[in beta]: https://lists.zx2c4.com/pipermail/wireguard/2018-November/003526.html

I initially [tried] to implement [the WireGuard protocol] in Swift, but
abandoned that after learning that the WireGuard team had plans to make
the Go implementation of WireGuard (used in their Android app) available
for use in iOS.

[WireGuard]: https://www.wireguard.com
[tried]: https://github.com/roop/NEWireGuard
[the WireGuard protocol]: https://www.wireguard.com/protocol/

When I took a look at WireGuard after a few months, a C API based on
WireGuard-Go was available that could be used from iOS, and an effort to
make an iOS app was underway.

I proposed a rewrite of the app to:

  - Use the VPN tunnel for data persistance instead of Core Data
  - Redo the UI to support both the iPhone and iPad
  - Redo the UI in code (no Interface Builder)
  - Minimize dependancies on third-party code
  - Enable a macOS version to be developed with the same code base

My pitch was accepted, and I'm currently working on this project.

The features implemented so far in the iOS version are:

  - Bringing up a WireGuard tunnel
  - Creating, viewing and modifying tunnel configurations
  - Importing from a .conf or .zip file
  - Importing through QR code (adapted from the code before my rewrite)
  - Exporting all tunnels to a .zip file
  - On-Demand VPN
  - State Restoration
  - Support for Dynamic Type

---

**Source code:** [https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-ios/](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-ios/)

Commit message:

Update 'WireGuard' page to mention NLnet

work/wireguard.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /work/wireguard/index.html
---

<section markdown="1">

  <aside class="roop-intro">
  <p>{% include roop-intro.html %}</p>
  <p>Here are some of the things I've worked on.</p>
  </aside>

## WireGuard

I'm working on bringing the [WireGuard] VPN tunnel to iOS and macOS using
the Network Extension framework. The iOS version is now [in beta].

[in beta]: https://lists.zx2c4.com/pipermail/wireguard/2018-November/003526.html

I initially [tried] to implement [the WireGuard protocol] in Swift, but
abandoned that after learning that the WireGuard team had plans to make
the Go implementation of WireGuard (used in their Android app) available
for use in iOS.

[WireGuard]: https://www.wireguard.com
[tried]: https://github.com/roop/NEWireGuard
[the WireGuard protocol]: https://www.wireguard.com/protocol/

When I took a look at WireGuard after a few months, a C API based on
WireGuard-Go was available that could be used from iOS, and an effort to
make an iOS app was underway.

I proposed a rewrite of the app to:

  - Use the VPN tunnel for data persistance instead of Core Data
  - Redo the UI to support both the iPhone and iPad
  - Redo the UI in code (no Interface Builder)
  - Minimize dependancies on third-party code
  - Enable a macOS version to be developed with the same code base

My pitch was accepted, and I'm currently working on this project. My
work on this project is sponsored by the [NLnet Foundation][nlnet].

[nlnet]: http://nlnet.nl/

The features implemented so far in the iOS version are:

  - Bringing up a WireGuard tunnel
  - Creating, viewing and modifying tunnel configurations
  - Importing from a .conf or .zip file
  - Importing through QR code (adapted from the code before my rewrite)
  - Exporting all tunnels to a .zip file
  - On-Demand VPN
  - State Restoration
  - Support for Dynamic Type

---

**Source code:** [https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-ios/](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-ios/)
